README.rst, before:

Space
=====

:author: Curtis Sand
:date: 2015

Concept:
    A game where each player strives to manage a growing empire of planets and
    to conquer all other empires.

The project was started as a side project after a number of years of thinking
about the concept. The concept may not be especially new but some of the design
ideas were chosen due to frustrations found in similar games.

Development
-----------

The main repository is hosted on Github while a public mirror is maintained at
Bitbucket.

- https://github.com/fretboardfreak/space
- https://bitbucket.org/fret/space

For planning and issue tracking I am using a public Trello board. I chose
Trello over either of the issue tracker offerings of Github or Bitbucket
because it gives me more freedom to fit the workflow I like to use.

- https://trello.com/b/Oi1ucOMB/space

The code is predominantly written in python 3.

Versioning
^^^^^^^^^^

Early development will use numbers less than 1.0. Above 1.0 the whole number or
major version will be incremented for save file incompatible changes and the
decimal number or minor version will be incremented when something new happens.

The definition of "when something new happens" is intentionally left ambiguous
until there is a better idea of what the minor number changes actually mean.

The version number will be monotonically increasing and the format used will be
the same as interpreted by ``ls -v`` or by distutils' ``LooseVersion`` class.

Coding Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^

In general I try to follow PEP 8. A good rule of thumb is to ensure your changes
pass all tests performed by the ``pep8`` and ``pyflakes`` tools. They can be
installed using ``pip install -r dev-requirements.txt`` from the top level
directory of this repository.

Some non-obvious conventions that I also like to use are:

- ``repr`` strings should have the format "classname(details)" where the details
  is the repr representation of the relevant data contained in the class.

- ``repr`` strings do not contain newlines.

- ``str`` strings should be a multiline block of text - including a user facing
  classname if it makes sense.

- Anything that needs to be saved between sessions needs to implement
  ``__getstate__`` and ``__setstate__``. Although not explicitly required for
  pickle, enforcing the implementation now might make switching to a SQL
  database more straight forward later. The object states should be a tuple of
  primitive types.

Tests
^^^^^

Test code lives under the ``tests/`` directory in the top level of the
repository. The packages listed in the dev-requirements.txt file are required
for the tests to work correctly.

In general tests should try to use actual code where possible to ensure changes
meet interface expectations that dependent code might have.

----

Design Notes
============

Command Line Interface
----------------------

The user is the ruler of an empire of planets. He/She needs to be able to
manage the development of each planet while also performing exploratory and
military type space activities too.

To minimize the amount of typing most commands will use a "currently focused
object" concept. Each planet and ship squadron will be a focus-able object. To
leverage a familiar command concept the linux ``cd`` and ``ls`` could be used
here.

- debug : access to debugging tools and game internals
- quit  : save and exit the game
- ls    : list focus-able entitites like planets or squadrons
- cd    : change focussed object
- show  : like list except show prints the details of the objects too

Commit message:

ditz: updated Readme and Requirements for pyditz
I have decided to use an issue tracking system that more closely ties
the issues and even my planning to the code itself.  Trello works well
but it isn't close enough to the code for some features.

README.rst, after:

Space
=====

:author: Curtis Sand
:date: 2015

Concept:
    A game where each player strives to manage a growing empire of planets and
    to conquer all other empires.

The project was started as a side project after a number of years of thinking
about the concept. The concept may not be especially new but some of the design
ideas were chosen due to frustrations found in similar games.

Development
-----------

The main repository is hosted on Github while a public mirror is maintained at
Bitbucket.

- https://github.com/fretboardfreak/space
- https://bitbucket.org/fret/space

The code is predominantly written in python 3 and the python PEP8
recommendation is followed to help ensure clean readable style.

For planning and issue tracking I am trying out the `PyDitz`_ project, which is
a python fork of the original Ditz project.

.. note:: For installing pyditz I've cloned the mercurial repository and have
          been using 0.9 in-development version.  To do this I cloned the repo,
          installed the pre-requisites (now included in Space's
          ``dev-requirements.txt`` file), and installed ditz with "python
          setup.py install".  At the time of this writing you can also get
          pyditz by installing version 0.8 from `PyPi`_.

.. _PyDitz: https://bitbucket.org/zondo/pyditz
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org

.. note:: Releases v0.1 and v0.2 were created before the project migrated to
          ditz.  As such the content in the ``CHANGES`` change-log file and
          export content from pyditz may appear different than later releases.

.. topic:: deprecated as of 2015-06-03

    For planning and issue tracking I am using a public Trello board. I chose
    Trello over either of the issue tracker offerings of Github or Bitbucket
    because it gives me more freedom to fit the workflow I like to use.

    - https://trello.com/b/Oi1ucOMB/space

Versioning
^^^^^^^^^^

Early development will use numbers less than 1.0. Above 1.0 the whole number or
major version will be incremented for save file incompatible changes and the
decimal number or minor version will be incremented when something new happens.

The definition of "when something new happens" is intentionally left ambiguous
until there is a better idea of what the minor number changes actually mean.

The version number will be monotonically increasing and the format used will be
the same as interpreted by ``ls -v`` or by distutils' ``LooseVersion`` class.

Coding Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^

In general I try to follow PEP 8. A good rule of thumb is to ensure your changes
pass all tests performed by the ``pep8`` and ``pyflakes`` tools. They can be
installed using ``pip install -r dev-requirements.txt`` from the top level
directory of this repository.

Some non-obvious conventions that I also like to use are:

- ``repr`` strings should have the format "classname(details)" where the details
  is the repr representation of the relevant data contained in the class.

- ``repr`` strings do not contain newlines.

- ``str`` strings should be a multiline block of text - including a user facing
  classname if it makes sense.

- Anything that needs to be saved between sessions needs to implement
  ``__getstate__`` and ``__setstate__``. Although not explicitly required for
  pickle, enforcing the implementation now might make switching to a SQL
  database more straight forward later. The object states should be a tuple of
  primitive types.

Tests
^^^^^

Test code lives under the ``tests/`` directory in the top level of the
repository. The packages listed in the dev-requirements.txt file are required
for the tests to work correctly.

In general tests should try to use actual code where possible to ensure changes
meet interface expectations that dependent code might have.

----

Design Notes
============

Command Line Interface
----------------------

The user is the ruler of an empire of planets. He/She needs to be able to
manage the development of each planet while also performing exploratory and
military type space activities too.

To minimize the amount of typing most commands will use a "currently focused
object" concept. Each planet and ship squadron will be a focus-able object. To
leverage a familiar command concept the linux ``cd`` and ``ls`` could be used
here.

- debug : access to debugging tools and game internals
- quit  : save and exit the game
- ls    : list focus-able entitites like planets or squadrons
- cd    : change focussed object
- show  : like list except show prints the details of the objects too
